50%

SCHOLARSHIP
FOR POST GRADUATE

What makes TUU Special

We're the university of YOU

ABOUT US:
The Unity University is a growing, dynamic vision-driven
University, founded on Pan-Africanism and committed
to pioneering excellence at the cutting edge of learning.
We run with a compelling vision of raising a new genera-
tion of leaders for the African continent. We are doing
this on a holistic, human development and integrated
learning curriculum to raise total Men and Women who
will develop Somaliland and the world.

ADDRESS: Jigjiga Yar Street near Masjid Jabir Hargeisa Somaliland
TEL/:0634210013| 0637707788
E-MAIL: theunityuniversity@gmail.com | info@tuu.university | www.tuu.university



THE UNITY

WHAT BEG

SAPRICA

VERSITY

What makes TUU Special

We're the university of YOU
ABOUT US:
We are a university that believes in offering a transformation-
al experience for its students, ensuring that you grow and
develop in ways that you might not even yet have dreamed of.
We are one of the strongest universities in Horn of Africa; that
means we don't just rely on a heritage stretching back over
many years but focus on making history every day. Our grow-
ing numbers and high graduate employability demonstrate
that we are a real force in the higher education sector.


matter how rich you are; if you do not
have the gift of discipline, then you are
danger to the society "

~Prof. PLO Lumumba
Tel: 063. 4210013 | |063 7235143 | | 063 7235142
Web: WWW.tuu.university

iscipline is the heart of who you are
matter how educated you are; no



FOR UNDERGRADUATE
THE UNITY UNIVERSITY provides higher education for a
higher purpose.
TUU was founded to put excellent education within
reach of all passionate and driven students.
Our unique approach equips our graduates with the
skills, acuity and vision needed to succeed as ethical,
entrepreneurial leaders and our vibrant,
Pan-African community promises life-long friendship
and inspiration.

One of a kind education for
those who want to lead

change.

50%

ABOUTUS:

SCHOLARSHIP

E-MAIL: theunityuniversity@gmail.com | info@tuu.university | www.tuu.university
TEL/: 0634210013 | 0637707788
ADDRESS: Jigjiga Yar Street near Masjid Jabir Hargeisa Somaliland