OVERVIEW OF THE UNIVERSITY

Moto

NI

What begins here, transforms Africa
Philosophy Statement
The Unity University believes that sustainable national and global development can
be achieved through nurturing an intellectual culture that integrates theory with
practice to produce graduates with relevant knowledge, skills, and responsible
citizenry. The University also believes that quality education, training, research,
extension, environmental sustainability, and entrepreneurship lead to social
cohesion, human integrity, and economic development. These ideals will be realized
through a passion for excellence, devotion to duty, accountability, prudent utilization
of resources, corporate citizenship, and teamwork. To actualize these beliefs, the
University is committed to generation, preservation, and sharing of knowledge for
effective leadership in education, training, research, and extension. The ultimate goal
of The Unity University is to be a Premier University for the provision of quality
education, training, research, and extension in both basic and applied environmental
and related studies.
Vision
To become a world-class University in leadership development in Africa.
Mission
To contribute to the development and sustenance of the well-being of the people of
Somaliland, Africa, and the world through the provision of flexible, innovative,
entrepreneurial, inclusive programs of teaching, learning, research, and service.

sity

The mandate of the University
The mandate of The Unity University is enshrined in her objects and functions as
shown below:
Jigjiga Yar Street near Masjid Jabir Hargeisa Somaliland Tel: 0634210013 / 0637235142 / 0637235143/0634679325
E-mail: theunityuniversity@gmail.com


The Unity University

9

1.0. Introduction
1.1 Historical Background
The Unity University (TUU) is Africa's pioneer, non-profit, tuition-free accredited
university in Somaliland. It prides itself as being the education revolution dedicated
to opening access to higher education globally by assisting qualified high school
graduates overcome financial, geographic, political, and attendant constraints in
accessing higher education.
With UNESCO estimating that 100 million young people will be seeking vacancies
in universities by 2025, it strikes rather shockingly that such vacancies and
universities don't exist. Since TUU believes that access to higher education is a basic
right that promotes world peace and global economic development, it has undertaken
to contribute to bridging this gap.
Since its inception, The Unity University (TUU) has seen the demand for admission
to the university increase despite the closure for registration to various courses for
the academic year 2021-2022. To fulfill the objects and functions of the University,
TUU has a responsibility to enhance the safety and security of staff, students, clients,
and surrounding communities.
The global and regional security environment continues to experience dynamic
challenges and opportunities that call for new approaches. The government
formulates and operationalizes necessary policy, legal and institutional framework
around security, peacebuilding, and conflict management through;
路 Promoting public-private cooperation and civilian/community involvement for
improved safety and security:
路 Deepening policy, legal and institutional reforms for improved enforcement of law
and order;
路 Promoting processes for national and inter-community dialogue to build harmony
among ethnic and racial, and other groups;
Jigjiga Yar Street near Masjid Jabir Hargeisa Somaliland Tel: 0634210013 / 0637235142 / 0637235143/0634679325
E-mail: theunityuniversity@gmail.com

The Unity University

10

路 Promoting peacebuilding and reconciliation to improve conflict management and
ensure sustained peace within the country; and
. Inculcating a culture of respect for the sanctity of human life that restrains from
the use of violence as an instrument of resolving personal and community disputes.
This should start with the family, schools, the Mosques, and all public institutions.
1.2 Policy Background
The development of this policy was compelled by the need to provide a safe and
secure The Unity University environment. In line with Article 24: of the Somaliland
Constitution. this policy seeks to promote and guarantee the safety and security of
The Unity University property, staff, students, and other stakeholders.
1.3 Global Context
Globally, security has become a transboundary issue requiring regional and
international approaches to guarantee freedom, peace, and safety. Security threats
that have been emerging in the recent past are cross border or global including
terrorism, international crime syndicates, piracy, money laundering schemes,
cybercrime, narcotics and human trafficking, wildlife poaching, and environmental
degradation. Others include illegal immigrants and refugees, trade-in illicit small
and light arms, the spread of communicable diseases, transboundary pests and
diseases, and trans-border crime. The United Nations realized this shortcoming and
through Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Number 11 and 16 seeks to achieve
a safe and secure global environment.
1.4 Somaliland's Context
Somaliland's National Security Objectives are aimed at safeguarding the country's
sovereignty and promoting the security and welfare of all citizens. The instability in
Somaliland's' neighboring countries, mainly Ethiopia, and Somalia has affected
Somaliland in many ways. For example, the influx of refugees, acts of violence and
aggression, and the proliferation of small arms and light weapons have hurt
Somaliland's safety and security. National security plays a critical role in the
national economy by creating an enabling environment upon which all economic
activities take place. Through the foreign policy objectives, Somaliland seeks to
Jigjiga Yar Street near Masjid Jabir Hargeisa Somaliland Tel: 0634210013 / 0637235142 / 0637235143/0634679325
E-mail: theunityuniversity@gmail.com